## 200 char version

Colombian-Canadian-American software consultant (Double Agent) at TestDouble.
Teaching, testing, pairing, being nice üëç 3 hour walks in a new city üôå

## 400 char version

Juan is a Colombian-Canadian-American software consultant at TestDouble. His
real job title is Double Agent. He loves helping other engineers write software,
through teaching, promoting testing, pair programming, and being nice.

For the last three years, Juan has been working remotely full time. During that
time he has also had the opportunity to travel/live in 17 countries. He loves
playing the guitar and going on 3 hour walks in a new city.

## Espa√±ol

Juan David es un desarrollador full-stack para SpanishDict.com, el diccionario
espa√±ol ingl√©s m√°s grande del mundo. Creci√≥ entre Bogot√° y Oregon, y habla
ingl√©s y espa√±ol como lengua materna. Da charlas acerca del idioma Elm y de la
filosof√≠a Unix dentro de Node.js

## 30 second version

I've always been fascinated by language, having grown up speaking three.
Pursuing that interest through studying linguistics at the University of British
Columbia lead me into a deeper interest of how we can use data to reveal
patterns that we would otherwise miss. I've been lucky enough to find my way
into full-stack javascript development and now work for Fluencia, making the
biggest Spanish-English dictionary online and getting to combine my passion for
web development with my love of language. I'm very involved in the DC Tech
community, including as an organizer for the Nova Node meetup group. Currently
I'm focusing on developing my abilities as a technical speaker.

## 2 minute version

Having been raised by parents who were each trilingual, I have always been
fascinated by languages. I took that interest into college at the University of
British Columbia where I majored in Linguistics. Though using logic and science
to deconstruct language will always be a personal interest of mine, I found the
real magic was in the ability to use data to reveal patterns in we would
otherwise miss. This lead me into exploring statistics and natural language
processing, and through that into programming.

After college, I decided to start learning everything I could about software
development and the web. I was lucky enough to find my way out to Virginia and
become a Java developer for the government. I brought that same thirst for
learning to all my projects after that, leading me to get more and more involved
in the DC Tech community and various local development meetup groups. Recently
I've been fortunate enough to join Fluencia, the company behind the biggest
Spanish-English dictionary online, Spanishdict.com , as a full-stack Javascript
developer. Every day I am lucky enough to get to combine my passion for web
development and my love of language.

What I really find most rewarding in technology is interacting with people.
That's what makes the working in the web, and Javascript specifically, so
wonderful, the great community of people we get to spend time with. I'm thrilled
to get to be a part of that community and look forward to helping it grow and
flourish.

I am currently focusing on developing my abilities as a technical speaker to
help inspire excitement and collaboration in this crazy exciting JS world.
